31
2006 - At least 21 suspected terrorists were arrested in the 2006 transatlantic aircraft plot that happened in the United Kingdom. The arrests were made in London, Birmingham, and High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, in an overnight operation.
1942 - Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi is arrested in Bombay by British forces, launching the Quit India Movement.
1854 - Henry David Thoreau published Walden.
1944 - The United States Forest Service and the Wartime Advertising Council release posters featuring Smokey Bear for the first time.
1902 - Edward VII and Alexandra of Denmark are crowned King and Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.
1945 - World War II: Nagasaki is devastated when an atomic bomb, Fat Man, is dropped by the United States B-29 Bockscar. 39,000 people are killed outright.
1173 - Construction of the campanile of the cathedral of Pisa (now known as the Leaning Tower of Pisa) begins; it will take two centuries to complete.
1483 - Opening of the Sistine Chapel in Rome with the celebration of a Mass.
1877 - Indian Wars: Battle of Big Hole - A small band of Nez Percé Indians clash with the United States Army
1969 - Followers led by Charles Manson murder pregnant actress Sharon Tate (wife of Roman Polanski), coffee heiress Abigail Folger, Polish actor Wojciech Frykowski, men's hairstylist Jay Sebring and recent high-school graduate Steven Parent.
1971 - The Troubles: The British security forces in Northern Ireland launch Operation Demetrius. Hundreds of people are arrested and interned, thousands are displaced, and twenty are killed in the violence that followed.
1892 - Thomas Edison receives a patent for a two-way telegraph.
1814 - Indian Wars: the Creek sign the Treaty of Fort Jackson, giving up huge parts of Alabama and Georgia.
1944 - Continuation war: The Vyborg–Petrozavodsk Offensive, the largest offensive launched by Soviet Union against Finland during the Second World War, ends to a strategic stalemate. Both Finnish and Soviet troops at the Finnish front dug to defensive positions, and the front remains stable until the end of the war.
1907 - The first Boy Scout encampment concludes at Brownsea Island in southern England.
1942 - World War II: Battle of Savo Island - Allied naval forces protecting their amphibious forces during the initial stages of the Battle of Guadalcanal are surprised and defeated by an Imperial Japanese Navy cruiser force.
1999 - Russian President Boris Yeltsin fires his Prime Minister, Sergei Stepashin, and for the fourth time fires his entire cabinet. On the same day, Chris Jericho makes his WWF debut by interrupting The Rock with a millennium clock.
1810 - Napoleon annexes Westphalia as part of the First French Empire.
1842 - The Webster-Ashburton Treaty is signed, establishing the United States-Canada border east of the Rocky Mountains.
378 - Gothic War: Battle of Adrianople - A large Roman army led by Emperor Valens is defeated by the Visigoths in present-day Turkey. Valens is killed along with over half of his army.
1965 - A fire at a Titan missile base near Searcy, Arkansas kills 53 construction workers.
1930 - Betty Boop made her cartoon debut in Dizzy Dishes.
1329 - Quilon, the first Indian Christian Diocese, is erected by Pope John XXII; the French-born Jordanus is appointed the first Bishop.
1936 - Summer Olympic Games: Games of the XI Olympiad - Jesse Owens wins his fourth gold medal at the games becoming the first American to win four medals in one Olympiad.
1974 - As a direct result of the Watergate scandal, Richard Nixon becomes the first President of the United States to resign from office. His Vice President, Gerald Ford, becomes president.
1988 - Wayne Gretzky is traded from the Edmonton Oilers to the Los Angeles Kings in one of the most controversial player transactions in hockey history, upsetting many Canadians.
1993 - The Liberal Democratic Party of Japan loses a 38-year hold on national leadership.
1862 - American Civil War: Battle of Cedar Mountain - At Cedar Mountain, Virginia, Confederate General Stonewall Jackson narrowly defeats Union forces under General John Pope.
1965 - Singapore is expelled from Malaysia and becomes the first and only country to date to gain independence unwillingly.
1925 - A train robbery takes place in Kakori, near Lucknow, India
681 - Bulgaria is founded as a Khanate on the south bank of the Danube after defeating the Byzantine armies of Emperor Constantine IV south of the Danube delta.
