670
'Tis easier to build two chimneys, than maintain one in fuel.
Rob not God, nor the poor, lest thou ruin thyself; the eagle snatched a coal from the altar, but it fired her nest. 
Talking against religion is unchaining a tiger; the beast let loose may worry his deliverer.
Let thy child's first lesson be obedience, and the second may be what thou wilt.
A cypher and humility make the other figures and virtues of tenfold value.
Much virtue in herbs, little in men.
He that cannot bear with other people's passions, cannot govern his own.
Beware of little expenses, a small leak will sink a great ship.
If you know how to spend less than you get, you have the philisopher's stone.
The heathens when they dy'd, went to bed without a candle.
Men and melons are hard to know.
Genius without education is like silver in the mine.
'Tis hard (but glorious) to be poor and honest.
Be slow in choosing a friend, slower in changing.
Reading makes a full man, meditation a profound man, discourse a clear man.
After crosses and losses men grow humbler and wiser.
Happy's the wooing that's not long a doing.
The muses love the morning.
One good husband is worth two good wives; for the scarcer things are the more they're valued.
Keep thy shop, and thy shop will keep thee.
There are no fools so troublesome as those that have wit.
To-morrow every fault is to be amended; but that to-morrow never comes.
If thou injurest conscience, it will have its revenge on thee.
You may sometimes be much in the wrong, in owning your being in the right.
Nothing but money is sweeter than honey.
Most people return small favors, acknowledge middling ones, and repay great ones with ingratitude.
An ill wound, but not an ill name, may be healed.
When you're good to others, you are best to yourself.
A full belly makes a dull brain.
Don't think to hunt two hares with one dog.
Observe old Vellum; he praises former times, as if he'd a mind to sell 'em.
The most exquisite folly is made of wisdom spun too fine.
Don't go to the doctor with every distemper, nor to the lawyer with every quarrel, nor to the pot for every thirst.
Do not do that which you would not have known.
Let thy discontents be thy secrets; if the world knows them 'twill despise thee and increase them.
If you'd lose a troublesome visitor, lend him money.
Keep your mouth wet, feet dry.
Sloth and silence are a fool's virtues.
Fear not death; for the sooner we die, the longer shall we be immortal.
There is no man so bad but he secretly respects the good.
The noblest question in the world is, what good may I do in it?
Lying rides upon debt's back.
Necessity has no law; Why? Because, 'tis not to be had without money.
No gains without pains.
Virtue and happiness are mother and daughter.
Well done is better than well said.
Fools need advice most, but wise men only are the better for it.
Better slip with foot than tongue.
Approve not of him that commends all you say.
Those who are fear'd, are hated.
An ounce of wit that is bought, is worth a pound that is taught.
The favor of the Great is no inheritance.
Kings and bears often worry their keepers.
Distrust and caution are the parents of security.
Time enough always proves little enough.
Youth is pert and positive, age modest and doubting; so ears of corn when young and light, stand bolt upright, but hang their heads when weighty, full, and ripe.
You may delay, but time will not.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Experience keeps a dear school, yet fools will learn in no other.
At 20 years of age the will reigns; at thirty the wit; at 40 the judgment.
Nothing drys sooner than a tear.
If you'd have a servant that you like, serve yourself.
A modern wit is one of David's fools.
He that would catch fish, must venture his bait.
He that takes a wife, takes care.
Many a man would have been worse, if his estate had been better.
If you would be reveng'd of your enemy, govern yourself.
All mankind are beholden to him that is kind to the good.
Men differ daily about things which are subject to sense, is it likely then they should agree about things invisible?
Good sense is a thing all need, few have, and none think they want.
Pain wastes the body; pleasures the understanding.
He that is of opinion money will do everything may well be suspected of doing everything for money.
Lover and Lordship hate companions.
If thou would'st live long, live well; for folly and wickedness shorten life.
Wish not so much to live long as to live well.
When knaves fall out, honest men get their goods; when priests dispute, we come at the truth.
If Jack's in love, he's no judge of Jill's beauty.
Tho' modesty is a virtue, bashfulness is a vice.
Love your neighbor; yet don't pull down your hedge.
Proclaim not all thou knowest, all thou owest, all thou hast, nor all thou canst.
Poverty, poetry, and new titles of honor, make men ridiculous.
A full belly is the mother of all evil.
A lie stands on one leg, truth on two.
Proud modern learning despises the ancient. School-men are now laughed at by school-boys.
Quarrels never could last long, if on one side only lay the wrong.
Have you somewhat to do to-morrow; do it to-day.
The bird that sits, is easily shot.
Hunger never saw bad bread.
He that best understands the world, least likes it.
Three things are men most likely to be cheated in, a horse, a wig, and a wife.
The second vice is lying; the first is running in debt.
Words may show a man's wit, but actions his meaning.
They who have nothing to trouble them, will be troubled at nothing.
Neglect mending a small fault, and 'twill soon be a great one.
We are not so sensible of the greatest health as of the least sickness.
Pride is as loud a beggar as want, and a great deal more saucy.
He that sells upon trust, loses many friends, and always wants money.
There's small revenge in words, but words may be greatly revenged.
He is ill clothed, who is bare of virtue.
There are three faithful friends, an old wife, an old dog, and ready money.
Let all men know thee, but no man know thee thoroughly; men freely ford that see the shallows.
Virtue may not always make a face handsome, but vice will certainly make it ugly.
Now I've a sheep and a cow, every body bids me good morrow.
Laws like to cobwebs, catch small flies, great ones break through before your eyes.
At the working man's house hunger looks in but dares not enter.
Many foxes grow grey, but few grow good.
Vain-glory flowereth, but beareth no fruit.
Trouble springs from idleness; toil from ease.
Women and wine, game and deceit, make the wealth small and the wants great.
I have never seen the philosopher's stone that turns lead into gold, but I have known the pursuit of it turn a man's gold into lead.
Pray, don't burn my house to roast your eggs.
When reason preaches, if you won't hear her, she'll box your ears.
"I'll warrant ye", goes before rashness; "Who'd-a-tho't" comes sneaking after.
When 'tis fair, be sure take your coat with you.
There are three things extremely hard, steel, a diamond and to know one's self.
Promises may get thee friends, but non-performance will turn them into enemies.
The good pay-master is lord of an other man's purse.
To whom thy secret thou dost tell, to him thy freedom thou dost sell.
He that's content hath enough; he that complains has too much.
The bell calls others to church, but itself never minds the sermon.
Great spenders are bad lenders.
I saw few die of hunger, of eating a hundred thousand.
Pretty and witty, will wound if they hit ye.
Love your enemies, for they tell you your faults.
Many would live by their wits, but break for want of stock.
Pride dines upon vanity, sups on contempt.
Two dry sticks will burn a green one.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost; for want of a shoe, the horse is lost; for want of a horse the rider is lost,
A good man is seldom uneasy, an ill one never easy.
Rob not for burnt offerings.
You may give a man an office, but you cannot give him discretion.
Wide will wear, but narrow will tear.
God gives all things to industry.
When the well's dry, we know the worth of water.
The generous mind least regards money, and yet most feels the want of it.
All blood is alike ancient.
The prodigal generally does more injustice than the covetous.
Different sects like different clocks, may be all near the matter, though they don't quite agree.
Sudden power is apt to be insolent, sudden liberty saucy; that behaves best which has grown gradually.
Graft good fruit all, or graft not at all.
It's common for men to give pretended reasons instead of one real one.
He that is rich need not live sparingly, and he that can live sparingly, need not be rich.
Wars bring scars.
No resolution repenting hereafter, can be sincere.
He that never eats too much, will never be lazy.
Who is powerful? He that governs his passions.
Visit your aunt, but not every day; and call at your brother's, but not every night.
Let thy vices die before thee.
He has chang'd his one ey'd horse for a blind one.
When the wine enters, out goes the truth.
Nothing more like a fool, than a drunken man.
The family of fools is ancient.
What signifies your patience, if you can't find it when you want it.
If you do what you would not, you must hear what you would not.
He that won't be counsell'd, can't be help'd.
Be not niggardly of what costs thee nothing, as courtesy, counsel, and countenance.
An egg today is better than a hen tomorrow.
The painful preacher, like a candle bright, consumes himself in giving others light. 
A light purse is a heavy curse.
The brave and the wise can both pity and excuse, when cowards and fools shew no mercy.
Ill customs and bad advice are seldom forgotten.
Today is yesterday's pupil.
None are deceived but they that confide.
Half wits talk much but say little.
Who is rich? He that is content.
What is a butterfly at best? He's but a caterpillar dressed, the gaudy fop's his picture just.
Visits should be short, like a winter's day; lest you're too troublesome hasten away.
There are lazy minds as well as lazy bodies.
He that speaks much, is much mistaken.
He that pays for work before it's done, has but a penny-worth for two pence.
Hold your council before dinner; the full belly hates thinking as well as acting.
Pride and the gout are seldom cur'd throughout.
To be proud of knowledge, is to be blind with light; to be proud of virtue, is to poison yourself with the antidote.
Many complain of their memory, few of their judgment.
Changing countries or beds, cures neither a bad manager, nor a fever.
Success has ruin'd many a man.
A countryman between two lawyers, is like a fish between two cats.
Prayers and provender hinder no journey.
He that drinks his cyder alone, let him catch his horse alone.
Without justice courage is weak.
Take this remark from Richard, poor and lame, whatever is begun in anger, ends in shame.
It is better to take many injuries, than to give one.
Three may keep a secret, if two of them are dead.
Where good laws are, much people flock thither.
Saying and doing have quarrel'd and parted.
Laws too gentle are seldom obeyed; too severe, seldom executed.
The proof of gold is fire; the proof of woman, gold; the proof of man, a woman.
Those that have much business must have much pardon.
Act uprightly, and despise calumny; dirt may stick to a mud wall, but not to polish'd marble.
You will be careful, if you are wise; how you touch men's religion, or credit, or eyes.
Lovers, travellers, am! poets will give money to be heard.
Deny self for self's sake.
He's a fool that cannot conceal his wisdom.
Wink at small faults; remember thou hast great ones.
Thou canst not joke an enemy into a friend; but thou may'st a friend into an enemy.
Speak little, do much.
Vanity backbites more than malice.
Who is rich? He that rejoices in his portion.
All would live long, but none would be old.
Strange! that a man who has wit enough to write a satire, should have folly enough to publish it.
Don't value a man for the quality he is of, but for the qualities he possesses.
Some are weatherwise, some are otherwise.
Eat to please thyself, but dress to please others.
There is no little enemy.
Old boys have their playthings as well as young ones; the difference is only in the price.
A man without ceremony has need of great merit in its place.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
He that can take rest is greater than he that can take cities.
No man e'er was glorious who was not laborious.
Rather go to bed supperless, than run in debt for a breakfast.
The absent are never without fault, nor the present without excuse.
As pride increases, fortune declines.
Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time; for that's the stuff life is made of.
Half hospitality opens his door and shuts up his countenance.
Let every new year find you a better man.
Onions can make ev'n heirs and widows weep.
Many have quarrel'd about religion, that never practiced it.
Up, sluggard, and waste not life; in the grave will be sleeping enough.
Fear to do ill, and you need fear nought else.
He's a fool that makes his doctor his heir.
Happy Tom Crump, ne'er sees his own hump.
'Tis better leave for an enemy at one's death, than beg of a friend in one's life.
The golden age never was the present age.
Nice eaters seldom meet with a good dinner.
A quarrelsome man has no good neighbors.
There's more old drunkards, than old doctors.
By diligence and patience, the mouse bit in two the cable.
Silence is not always a sign of wisdom, but babbling is ever a mark of folly.
Most of the learning in use, is of no great use.
Creditors have better memories than debtors.
The excellency of hogs is fatness, of men virtue.
Strange, that he who lives by shifts, can seldom shift himself.
Danger is sauce for prayers.
Don't misinform your doctor nor your lawyer.
Tell a miser he's rich, and a woman she's old, you'll get no money of one, nor kindness of t'other.
The rotten apple spoils his companion.
Money and good manners make the gentleman.
If you ride a horse, sit close and tight, if you ride a man, sit easy and light.
Nor eye in a letter, nor hand in a purse, nor ear in the secret of another.
Plough deep, while sluggards sleep.
Where yet was ever found the  mother, who'd change her baby for another?
Many estates are spent in the getting.
Jack Little sow'd little, and little he'll reap.
Search others for their virtues, thyself for thy vices.
'Tis great confidence in a friend to tell him your faults, greater to tell him his.
If you would keep your secret from an enemy, tell it not to a friend.
Generous minds are all of kin.
Gifts much expected, are paid, not given.
He that can travel well afoot, keeps a good horse.
Tricks and treachery are the practice of fools, that have not wit enough to be honest.
He who multiplies riches multiplies cares.
Honor thy father and mother, i.e., live so as to be an honor to them when they are dead.
It's the easiest thing in the world for a man to deceive himself.
Love, cough, and a smoke, can't well be hid.
Great talkers should be cropt, for they've no need of ears.
Tongue double, brings trouble.
Sell not virtue to purchase wealth, nor liberty to purchase power.
Full of courtesy, full of craft.
Idleness is the greatest prodigality.
Be always ashamed to catch thyself idle.
If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold.
Trust thyself, and another shall not betray thee.
Poverty wants some things, luxury many things, avarice all things.
Blessed is he that expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.
A man without a wife, is but a half a man.
Where there's no law, there's no bread.
Better is a little with content than much with contention.
He that drinks fast, pays slow.
Hope and a red rag, are baits for men and mackrel.
Look before, or you'll find yourself behind.
Of learned fools I have seen ten times ten; of unlearned wise men I have seen a hundred.
Light heel'd mothers make leaden heel'd daughters.
Pardoning the bad, is injuring the good.
If pride leads the van, beggary brings up the rear.
A fine genius in his own country, is like gold in the mine.
He that spills the rum loses that only; he that drinks it, often loses both that and himself.
Ben beats his pate, and fancys wit will come; but he may knock, there's nobody at home.
He that resolves to mend hereafter, resolves not to mend now.
Never spare the parson's wine, nor the baker's pudding.
'Tis a well spent penny that saves a groat.
What you would seem to be, be really.
A soft tongue may strike hard.
Love well, whip well.
A fat kitchen, a lean will.
Suspicion may be no fault, but showing it may be a great one.
He that hath a trade, hath an estate.
Harry Smatter, has a mouth for every matter.
He that can compose himself, is wiser than he that composes books.
Content and riches seldom meet together. Riches take thou, contentment I had rather.
Virtue and a trade, are a child's best portion.
'Tis a shame that your family is an honor to you ! You ought to be an honor to your family.
Men take more pains to mask than mend.
After three days men grow weary of a wench, a guest, and weather rainy.
Gifts burst rocks.
Money and man a mutual friendship show; man makes false money, money makes man so.
If you would have guests merry with cheer, be so yourself, or so at least appear.
Ill company is like a dog who dirts those most, that he loves best.
The poor have little, beggars none, the rich too much, enough not one.
If you desire many things, many things seem but a few.
A man in a passion rides a mad horse.
The magistrate should obey the laws, the people should obey the magistrate.
Great modesty often hides great merit.
A wicked hero will turn his back to an innocent coward.
He is no clown that drives the plow, but he that doth clownish things.
Willows are weak, but they bind the faggot.
A cold April, the barn will fill.
The sting of a reproach is the truth of it.
O Lazy-bones! Dost thou think God would have given thee arms and legs, if he had not design'd thou should'st use them.
When there's more malice shown than matter, on the writer falls the satire.
Diligence overcomes difficulties, sloth makes them.
An old young man will be a young old man.
He that would travel much, should eat little.
Honors change manners.
A pair of good ears will drain dry an hundred tongues.
He that sows thorns, should never go barefoot.
The tongue offends, and the ears get the cuffing.
Prodigality of time, produces poverty of mind as well as of estate.
A false friend and a shadow attend only while the sun shines.
Drive thy business, or it will drive thee.
As sore places meet most rubs, proud folks meet most affronts.
Be at war with your vices, at peace with your neighbors.
Anger warms the invention, but overheats the oven.
The master's eye will do more work than both his hands.
Tart words make no friends; a spoonful of honey will catch more flies than a gallon of vinegar.
The proud hate pride in others.
The doors of wisdom are never shut.
Would you persuade, speak of interest, not of reason.
A flatterer never seems absurd : The flatter'd always takes his word.
Happy that Nation, fortunate that age, whose history is not diverting.
Sloth (like rust) consumes faster than labor wears. The used key is always bright.
Many a man's own tongue gives evidence against his understanding.
The old man has given all to his son; O fool ! to undress thyself before thou art going to bed.
He that riseth late, must trot all day, and shall scarce overtake his business by night.
Patience in market, is worth pounds in a year.
At a great pennyworth, pause a while.
Friendship increases by visiting friends, but by visiting seldom.
Learn of the skillful; he that teaches himself, hath a fool for his master.
For age and want save while you may; no morning sun lasts a whole day.
The rivers and bad governments, the lightest things swim at top.
He that falls in love with himself, will have no rivals.
The wolf sheds his coat once a year, his disposition never.
Sorrow is good for nothing but sin.
In success be moderate.
No workman without tools, nor lawyer without fools, can live by their rules.
The discontented man finds no easy chair.
Some are justly laughed at for keeping their money foolishly, others for spending it idly; he is the greatest fool that lays it out in a purchase of repentance.
We may give advice, but we cannot give conduct. 
He is a governor that governs his passions, and he a servant that serves them.
If you would reap praise you must sow the seeds, gentle words and useful deeds.
Take counsel in wine, but resolve afterwards in water.
Are you angry that others disappoint you? Remember you cannot depend upon yourself.
Declaiming against pride, is not always a sign of humility.
Employ thy time well, if thou meanest to gain leisure. 
There're many witty men whose brains can't fill their bellies.
'Tis a strange forest that has no rotten wood in it, and a strange kindred that all are good in it.
Marry your son when you will, but your daughter when you can.
Defer not thy well doing; be not like St. George, who is always on horseback, and never rides on.
The sleeping fox catches no poultry. Up! up!
Light purse, heavy heart.
Dally not with other folks' women or money.
Samson with his strong body, had a weak head, or he would not have laid in a harlot's lap.
He that builds before he counts the cost, acts foolishly; and he that counts before he builds, finds he did not count wisely.
Meanness is the parent of insolence.
The cat in gloves catches no mice.
Snowy winter, a plentiful harvest. 
A lean award is better than a fat judgment.
He that cannot obey, cannot command.
God helps them that help themselves.
Children and princes will quarrel for trifles.
Industry pays debts, despair increases them.
Many dishes, many diseases.
A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things.
Read much, but not many books.
The devil sweetens poison with honey.
What's proper is becoming; see the blacksmith with his white silk apron.
The creditors are a superstitious sect, great observers of set days and times.
Great famine when wolves eat wolves.
Clean your finger, before you point at my spots.
To err is human, to repent divine, to persist devilish.
Beauty and folly are old companions.
Liberality is not giving much, but giving wisely.
Anger and folly walk cheek by jole; repentance treads on both their heels.
One mend-fault is worth two findfaults, but one find-fault is better than two make-faults.
He that by the plow would thrive, himself must either hold or drive.
God heals, and the doctor takes the fees. 
There was never a good knife made of bad steel.
Friendship cannot live with ceremony, nor without civility.
The good or ill hap of a good or ill life, is the good or ill choice of a good or ill wife.
Blame-all and praise-all are two block heads.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
Ignorance leads men into a party, and shame keeps them from getting out again.
Silks and satins put out the kitchen fire.
Men meet, mountains never.
A new truth is a truth, an old error is an error, though Clodpate won't allow either.
Half the truth is often a great lie.
'Tis easier to suppress the first desire, than to satisfy all that follow it.
It is ill-manners to silence a fool, and cruelty to let him go on.
As we must account for every idle word, so we must for every idle silence.
He that would have a short Lent, let him borrow money to be repaid at Easter.
Cheese and salt meat should be sparingly eat.
Nine men in ten are suicides.
Ask and have, is sometimes dear buying.
Light gains, heavy purses.
Necessity has no law; I know some attorneys of the same.
Good wives and good plantation are made by good husbands.
None know the unfortunate, and the fortunate do not know themselves.
Some make conscience of wearing a hat in the church, who make none of robbing the altar.
He has lost his boots, but sav'd his spurs.
Pollio, who values nothing that's within, buys books as men hunt beavers, for their skin.
The poor man must walk to get meat for his stomach, the rich man to get a stomach to his meat.
Philosophy as well as foppery often changes fashion.
It is wise not to seek a secret, and honest not to reveal it.
The horse thinks one thing, and he that saddles him another. 
Ne'er take a wife till thou hast a house (and a fire) to put her in.
Lend money to an enemy, and thou'lt gain him, to a friend and thou'lt lose him. 
An innocent plowman is more worthy than a vicious prince.
When you speak to a man, look on his eyes; when he speaks to thee, look on his mouth.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
He's gone, and forgot nothing but to say farewell to his creditors.
Sleep without supping, and you'll rise without owing for it.
Kings have long arms, but misfortune longer; let none think themselves out of her reach.
Neither praise nor dispraise, till seven Christmasses be over.
Speak with contempt of none, from slave to king; the meanest bee hath, and will use, a sting.
You may talk too much on the best subjects.
Fools multiply folly.
He makes a foe, who makes a jest.
Give me yesterday's bread, this day's flesh, and last year's cyder.
Bargaining has neither friends nor relations.
Who is strong? He that can conquer his bad habits.
The learned fool writes his nonsense in better language than the unlearned; but still 'tis nonsense.
To bear other people's afflictions, every one has courage enough, and to spare.
Great estates may venture more; little boats must keep near shore.
Where bread is wanting, all's to be sold.
Tim and his handsaw are good in their place, tho' not fit for preaching or shaving a face.
The royal crown cures not the headache.
When death puts out your flame, the snuff will tell, if we were wax or tallow by the smell.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
Most fools think they are only ignorant.
The sun never repents of the good he does, nor does he ever demand a recompence.
He that lies down with dogs, shall rise up with fleas.
Help, hands; for I have no lands.
Vice knows she's ugly, so puts on her mask. 
Men often mistake themselves, seldom forget themselves.
Anger is never without a reason, but seldom with a good one.
Nick's passions grow fat and hearty; his understanding looks consumptive.
Drink does not drown care, but waters it, and makes it grow faster.
One may be more cunning than another, but not more cunning than everybody else.
Too much plenty makes mouth dainty.
He that has not got a wife, is not yet a complete man.
He's the best physician that knows the worthlessness of the most medicines.
He that would rise at court, must begin by creeping.
Tho' the mastiff be gentle, yet bite him not by the lip.
'Tis against some men's principle to pay interest, and seems against others' interest to pay the principal.
Take courage, mortal; death can't banish thee out of the universe.
Love, and be loved.
Drink water; put the money in your pocket, and leave the dry-bellyache in the punch-bowl.
A traveller should have a hog's nose, deer's legs, and an ass's back.
A long life may not be good enough, but a good life is long enough.
Buy what thou hast no need of; and e'er long thou shalt sell thy necessaries.
Praise to the undeserving is severe satire.
Since thou art not sure of a minute, throw not away an hour.
There's none deceived but he that trusts.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
The eye of a master, will do more work than his hand.
Fine linen, girls and gold so bright, choose not to take by candle light.
A good lawyer, a bad neighbor.
Tom, vain's your pains; they all will fail; ne'er was good arrow made of a sow's tail.
Welcome, mischief, if thou comest alone.
None preaches better than the ant, and she says nothing.
There is much difference between imitating a good man, and counterfeiting him.
The nearest way to come to glory, is to do that for conscience which we do for glory.
The honey is sweet, but the bee has a sting.
He that goes far to marry, will either deceive or be deceived.
Old young and old long.
The too obliging temper is evermore disobliging itself.
He that has a trade, has an office of profit and honor.
Tis not a holiday that's not kept holy.
The busy man has few idle visitors; to the boiling pot the flies come not.
Pay what you owe, and you'll know what's your own.
Marry above thy match, and thou'lt get a master.
Presumption first blinds a man, then sets him a running.
He is not well bred, that cannot bear ill-breeding in others.
If man could have half his wishes, he would double his troubles.
Wealth is not his that has it, but his that enjoys it.
If worldly goods cannot save me from death, they ought not to hinder me to eternal life.
Fond pride of dress is sure an empty curse; e'er fancy you consult, consult your purse.
As charms are nonsense, nonsense is a charm.
When prosperity was well mounted, she let go the bridle, and soon came tumbling out of the saddle.
All things are easy to industry, all things difficult to sloth.
The king's cheese is half wasted in parings; but no matter, 'tis made of the people's milk.
Time is an herb that cures all diseases.
Laziness travels so slowly, that poverty soon overtakes him.
Tell me my faults, and mend your own.
Neglect kills injuries, revenge increases them.
An hundred thieves cannot strip one naked man, especially if his skin's off.
An honest man will receive neither money nor praise, that is not his due. 
If you would not be forgotten as soon as you are dead and rotten, either write things worth reading, or do things worth writing.
The things which hurt, instruct.
He does not possess wealth, it possesses him.
When a friend deals with a friend, let the bargain be clear and well penn'd, that they may continue friends to the end.
Poor Plain Dealing! Dead without issue.
Write injuries in dust, benefits in marble.
Nothing humbler than ambition, when it is about to climb.
He that waits upon fortune, is never sure of a dinner.
Singularity in the right, hath ruined many; happy those who are convinced of the general opinion.
He that can have patience can have what he will.
Where sense is wanting, everything is wanting.
Many medicines, few cures.
Who is wise? He that learns from every one.
He who buys had need have 100 eyes, but one's enough for him that sells the stuff.
If you'd know the value of money, go and borrow some.
No wood without bark.
Clearly spoken, Mr. Fog! You explain English by Greek.
God, parents, and instructors, can never be requited.
Keep flax from fire, youth from gaming.
It, is ill jesting with the joiner's tools, worse with the doctor's.
You can bear your own faults, and why not a fault in your wife.
Content makes poor men rich; discontent makes rich men poor.
Never intreat a servant to dwell with thee.
Beware of him that is slow to anger; he is angry for something, and will not be pleased for nothing.
The way to see by faith, is to shut the Eye of Reason. The morning daylight appears plainer when you put out your candle.
When out of favor, none know thee; when in, thou dost not know thyself.
If you'd have it done, go; if not, send.
If thou hast wit and learning, add to it wisdom and modesty.
'Tis less discredit to abridge petty charges, than to stoop to petty gettings.
Let thy maid-servant be faithful, strong, and homely.
Great talkers, little doers.
Tim was so learned, that he could name a horse in nine languages. So ignorant, that he bought a cow to ride on.
If your riches are yours, why don't you take them with you to the other world?
A little house well fill'd, a little field well till'd, and a little wife well will'd, are great riches.
Despair ruins some, presumption many. 
Thirst after desert, not reward.
A temper to bear much, will have much to bear.
He that can bear a reproof, and mend by it, if he is not wise, is in a fair way of being so.
To be intimate with a foolish friend, is like going to bed with a razor.
Think of three things, whence you came, where you are going, and to whom you must account.
Fly pleasures and they'll follow you.
Having been poor is no shame, but being ashamed of it, is.
What signifies knowing the names, if you know not the nature of things.
Want of care does us more damage than want of knowledge.
Interest which blinds some people, enlightens others.
Great good-nature, without prudence, is a great misfortune.
Doing an injury puts you below your enemy; revenging one makes you but even with him; forgiving, it sets you above him.
Mary's mouth costs her nothing, for she never opens it but at others expense.
Courage would fight, but discretion won't let him.
How few there are who have courage enough to own their faults.
Great merit is coy, as well as great pride.
Fools make feasts, and wise men eat 'em.
Bad gains are truly losses. 
Nothing so popular as goodness.
Ceremony is not civility; nor civility ceremony.
There are no ugly loves, nor handsome prisons.
Death takes no bribes.
Drunkenness, that worst of evils, makes some men fools, some beasts, some devils.
The idle man is the devil's hireling; whose livery is rags, whose diet and wages are famine and diseases.
What's given shines, what's receiv'd is rusty.
When you taste honey, remember gall.
A mob's a monster; heads enough, but no brains.
Eyes and priests bear no jests.
Ambition often spends foolishly what avarice had wickedly collected.
Beware of the young doctor and the old barber.
Well done, is twice done.
When befriended, remember it; when you befriend, forget it.
A good example is the best sermon.
Many a meal is lost for want of meat.
The same man cannot be both friend and flatterer.
Don't throw stones at your neighbors, if your own windows are glass.
Content is the philosopher's stone, that turns all it touches into gold.
Pride breakfasted with plenty, dined with poverty, supped with infamy.
The heart of the fool is in his mouth, but the mouth of the wise man is in his heart.
He that scatters thorns, let him not go barefoot.
An empty bag cannot stand upright.
Many princes sin with David, but few repent with him.
All things are cheap to the saving, dear to the wasteful.
Retirement does not always secure virtue; Lot was upright in the city, wicked in the mountain.
The cunning man steals a horse, the wise man lets him alone.
Where there's marriage without love, there will be love without marriage.
Hope of gain lessens pain.
Strive to be the greatest man in your country, and you may be disappointed; strive to be the best, and you may succeed; he may well win the race that runs by himself.
Bad commentators spoil the best of books.
Being ignorant is not so much a shame, as being unwilling to learn.
Write with the learned, pronounce with the vulgar.
He that speaks ill of the mare, will buy her.
Three good meals a day is bad living.
Cut the wings of your hens and hopes, lest they lead you a wary dance after them.
Anoint a villian and he'll stab you; stab him, and he'll anoint you.
An old man in a house is a good sign.
Who knows a fool, must know his brother; for one will recommend another.
Do good to thy friend to keep him, to thy enemy to gain him.
'Tis easy to see, hard to foresee.
Eat few suppers, and you'll need few medicines.
Fish and visitors stink in three days.
The ancients tell us what is best, but we must learn of the moderns what is fittest.
'Tis a laudable ambition, that aims at being better than his neighbors.
He that pursues two hares at once, does not catch one and let t'other go.
Mad kings and mad bulls, are not to be held by treaties and packthread.
Every man has assurance enough to boast of his honesty, few of their understanding.
Little rogues easily become great ones.
Wish a miser long life, and you wish him no good.
If wind blows on you thro' a hole, make your will and take care of your soul.
Great almsgiving, lessens no man's living.
Here comes the orator, with his flood of words, and his drop of reason.
If you have time don't wait for time.
Ever since follies have pleased, fools have been able to divert.
Would you live with ease, do what you ought, and not what you please.
'Tis easier to prevent bad habits than to break them.
Keep thou from the opportunity, and God will keep thee from the sin.
Necessity never made a good bargain.
Do me the favor to deny me at once.
He that would live in peace and at ease, must not speak all he knows, nor judge all he sees.
Take heed of the vinegar of sweet wine, and the anger of good-nature.
Why does the blind man's wife paint herself?
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
A learned blockhead is a greater blockhead than an ignorant one.
If your head is wax, don't walk in the sun.
Who dainties love, shall beggars prove.
Glass, china, and reputation are easily crack'd, and never well mended.
Hunger is the best pickle.
The wise man draws more advantage from his enemies, than the fool from his friends.
You may be too cunning for one, but not for all.
With the old almanack and the old year, leave thy old vice, tho' ever so dear.
Poor Dick eats like a well man, and drinks like a sick.
There's a time to wink as well as to see.
Who judges best of a man, his enemies or himself?
For one poor man there are an hundred indigent.
Late children, early orphans.
Lost time is never found again.
The tongue is ever turning to the aching tooth.
Teach your child to hold his tongue, he'll learn fast enough to speak.
Hear reason, or she'll make you feel her.
Speak and speed; the close mouth catches no flies.
The way to be safe, is never to be secure.
If you have no money in your pot, have some in your mouth.
A house without woman and firelight, is like a body without soul or sprite.
Calamity and prosperity are the touchstones of integrity.
Don't overload gratitude; if you do she'll kick. 
Idleness is the Dead Sea, that swallows all virtues.
Beware, beware! He'll cheat without scruple, who can without fear.
If you'd be belov'd, make yourself amiable.
He that buys by the penny, maintains not only himself, but other people.
When knaves betray each other, one can scarce be blamed or the other pitied. 
Who has deceived thee so oft as thyself?
If passion drives, let reason hold the reins.
Those who in quarrels interpose, must often wipe a bloody nose.
Is there anything men take more pains about than to render themselves unhappy?
Grace thou thy house, and let not that grace thee.
Haste makes waste.
There is neither honor nor gain got in dealing with a villian.
The worst wheel of the cart makes the most noise.
A child thinks 20 shillings and 20 years can scarce ever be spent.
The honest man takes pains, and then enjoys pleasures; the knave takes pleasures, and then suffers pains.
Pride gets into the coach, and shame mounts behind.
Beware of meat twice boil'd, and an old foe reconcil'd.
In the affairs of this world men are saved, not by faith, but by the want of it.
If you would be loved, love and be lovable.
A plowman on his legs is higher than a gentleman on his knees.
The miser's cheese is wholesom'st.
To lengthen thy life, lessen thy meals.
He that doth what he should not, shall feel what he would not.
Fear God, and your enemies will fear you.
Never praise your cyder, horse, or bedfellow.
Hear no ill of a friend, nor speak any of an enemy.
It is not leisure that is not used.
Weighty questions ask for deliberate answers.
A father's a treasure; a brother's a comfort; a friend is both.
An undutiful daughter, will prove an unmanageable wife.
Don't judge of men's wealth or piety, by their Sunday appearances.
Where there is hunger, law is not regarded; and where law is not regarded, there will be hunger.
Observe all men; thyself most.
Spare and have is better than spend and crave.
